=====================================================================
 REpochX - A Grammatical Evolution Application based on R and EpochX
=====================================================================

REpochX is a command-line driven grammatical evolution application. It
exposes the grammatical evolution (GE) functionality of EpochX_ to R_
through signals and slots invoked at times when needed. The grammar,
evolution parameters, the R code to compute the fitness scores of
candidate programs and slots to be invoked on signals emitted are all
specified in a JSON_-formatted configuration file.

Usage
=====

Running the application is as simple as::
  
  repochx config.json

Rationale
=========

While we were playing around with *Genetic Programming* (GP) to build
our automated high-frequency trading system, we realized the need for
a convenient GE software which would enable us to run our *agile*
research agenda. After some hacking around, we've concluded that we
need mainly the ability of using R effectively (1) while computing the
fitness scores of candidate programs, and (2) to emit some R-based
functionality at particular times, like before (after) a generation or
run or the entire evolution starts (ends).

REpochX is nothing more than this. It relies on GE and event adapter
functionalities of EpochX_ and the ability of running R code which is
provided in OR along with the configuration file.

Question and Answers
====================

Where is the documentation?
---------------------------

Sorry, nowhere yet. For now, please::

   cd examples
   less config.json
   repochx config.json

This is just classical dummy: an ``x**2 + 2*x + 1`` estimator.

How to build and run:
---------------------

On Debian/Ubuntu (assuming that Java SDK is installed)::

  make dpkg
  sudo apt-get install r-cran-rjava repochx_<VERSION>.deb
  cd example
  repochx config.json

On other distributions (assuming that Java SDK is installed)::

  make jar
  cd example
  R
  > install.packages("rJava")
  > q()
  export R_HOME=/usr/lib/R ## Or wherever it is.
  REPOCHX_RUNTIME_PARAMS="-Xmx512m -Djava.library.path=/usr/lib/R/site-library/rJava/jri" ## Or wherever it is
  java $REPOCHX_RUNTIME_PARAMS -jar debian/repochx/usr/share/java/REpochX.jar config.json

On Windowz: Not tested. Will not be tested by us, most probably.

Why R?
------

Firstly, we love it. But more is that it's free and open source
software. Furthermore, we've been using, teaching and contributing to
R for almost a decade.

Why EpochX?
-----------

Firstly, we love it. But more is that it's free and open source
software and we liked the modern approach employed for the internal
API design. Tom_ did quite a good job and we came to know that more is
on the way.

Why not entirely in Java?
-------------------------

Firstly, we hate Java. That's fair enough for this decision, but
still, R is much more effective for statistical computing which we
heavily depend on every minute.

What about the licensing?
-------------------------

It is GPL_.

Are you happy?
--------------

Not exactly. We wish that we could provide better documentation and a more
error-proof application. Other than these, we've gained huge
efficiency for our own research. Hope that it will entertain you.

**Happy hacking...**

.. _EpochX: http://www.epochx.org/ 
.. _R: http://www.r-project.org/ 
.. _GPL: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.. _Tom: http://www.tc33.org/
.. _JSON: http://www.json.org/
